this is October it's the first day of
the year when it has been cool enough
for me to wear a scarf indoors the first
two minutes of this video are gonna feel
like the longest two minutes of your
life but we've got more than two hours
of really low-quality debate discussion
from vegan gains at vows you know this
is trimming it down to what I feel is
the crux of the argument you may notice
that the number three appears in the
caption to this argument that's because
I feel this is really the third step in
vouches reasoning on this issue even
though this part is presented first in
the order of the video where it
originally occurs I believe that people
shouldn't be held responsible for their
consumptive decision-making in the same
way that I wouldn't impugn you for
wearing clothing made by slaves I
wouldn't have you impugn me morally for
eating the corpses of animals I always
think it's a good thing to go vegan it's
always better to do so this makes you a
better person I just don't think it's
morally obligatory you're saying that
you don't believe somebody should be
responsible for their consumption like
their economic choices because we buy
[ __ ] all the time that's made the
silicon farms by slaves in Africa
plastic made in like you know factory
farms the blue theour like that sort of
thing but we don't impugn each other for
it ok so if you were to so you know
there's pedophiles right who buy child
pornography would you say they should
not be held responsible for doing that
yes really even though they're directly
supporting child rape yeah I think
that's it's it's hypocritical if I
because I bought my computer and the
silicon in it was farmed in Africa by
slaves if I can do that and that's Lea
thin no-one's gonna call me out in my
[ __ ] and yeah I have to be consistent in
that respect ok look I think there's
levels to this so I wouldn't equate
buying a computer to buying child
pornography the total amount of
suffering that goes into the the child
slaves that might not like the silicon
in Africa
you know in terms of me support in that
industry I mean that's pretty bad and I
didn't have to buy a computer this big I
could have bought something smaller I
could have bought a little Chromebook um
you know and I'm wonder how many more
hours slaves had to mine up that silicon
to justify me being able to own this
well it's not silicon it's Anna's
insulate coltan clothing I wear put
together by slave shop work or sweatshop
worker sorry glasses like it like
everything and and if you wanted to step
beyond the slavery element like all of
the stuff that I buy it goes towards
corporations so I feel there are just
two clarifications to make here and I
choose to say clarifications rather than
counter arguments the first is that yes
questions of what you consume do matter
in terms of virtue ethics he invokes the
idea of virtue ethics here specifically
as if it backs position and then
secondly we have to get in a little bit
to that this idea of the appeal the
futility fallacy
so virtue ethics is really an approach
to ethics that puts the subjective
experience front and center we were just
discussing utilitarian ethics on this
channel and very often utilitarians want
to be a bit slippery and evasive when
they talk about good and benefit and
pleasure
well well benefit for whom pleasure for
whom and then they maybe have like John
Stuart Mill himself have some abstract
idea of all of humanity or the average
of all of humanity what the average man
would enjoy the pleasure of not any
particular person but what what an
idealized rational person should enjoy
is the true pleasure and the pleasure of
the greatest number of people say no no
virtue ethics deals with questions of
you and me on a personal subjective
scale in a much more immediate way and
therefore it is more salient to this
kind of question about consumption
choices you know I'm often referred to
as being an example of virtue ethicist
because I ask people
question you know well weather or
something is right or wrong very often
can be exploitative in terms of
reflecting on what kind of person do you
aspire to be do you want to be the kind
of person who stays at home all day and
plays video games or do you want to be
the kind of person who's trying to make
the world a better place and whatever
misadventures that may bring you into
these kinds of questions putting this
subjective experience and subjective
moral character front and center asking
directly what is good for you as a
unique individual those are the
distinctive traits of a virtue ethicists
approach to ethical questions so why
would he suggest that in terms of virtue
ethics virtue ethics specifically what
we consume and what we buy you know that
we shouldn't be judged for it we
shouldn't be imputed these choices from
a virtue ethicist perspective if you
have a choice between buying a basket a
hand-woven basket that you know to be
made by slaves and you have the choice
of buying a hand-woven basket that's
made by free enterprising individuals
who own their own small company that's a
mom-and-pop operation or something they
have one employee who's the secretary I
don't know whatever the situation people
living in a democracy where they have
the right to vote in freedom of speech
and they're not slaves and they won't
these baskets and you have the choice
between these two things it's very easy
for a virtue ethicist to address this
and say well look what kind of person do
you want to be do you want to be the
kind of person who values human rights
and liberties so little that your
indifference to this you know this
question of who made your baskets you
know are wouldn't you rather be the kind
of person who has a preference for who
chooses to chooses to buy one type of
basket and refuses to buy another so
virtue ethics doesn't get him out of
this it doesn't help his position in
whatsoever I don't know why he well he
folks that term um he could have just as
easily mentioned Kantian ethics or kind
of any other name off the bookshelf of
you know you academic philosophy but for
whatever reason that's that that's
piece of jargon he rolled out here yeah
the other problem as much foreshadowed
already here is of the appeal to
futility fallacy now I've called this
part three of his argument because he's
built this on to earlier stages of what
I would call typical 21st century
watered-down communism I think those two
stages are worth addressing in a
separate video to be uploaded soon
probably without the scarf appeal the
futility fallacy face to face with
people it has to be taken seriously I
mean on paper or on a chalkboard an
academic setting it may seem ridiculous
but on a human level it can be very real
people can struggle with their own sense
of futility you know why should I bother
taking a bus rather than driving a car
what what difference does my
contribution Dec logical problems know
why should I bother putting the glass
containers in the recycling bowl instead
of putting the glass containers in the
garbage this kind of thing people
struggle with a sense of futility over
relatively trivial decisions and also
relatively enormous and profound ones I
know someone through the internet we're
not close friends but another vegan
activist and her situation in life is
that she became committed to taking care
of chickens I think these are almost
entirely chickens that have been rescued
from factories or that have been thrown
away and discarded by you know factory
farms by slaughterhouses and she in
effect is spending all of her time and
energy caring for these chickens dealing
with veterinarians
I mean involves blood and mucus it's a
lot of hands on horrible work trying to
give these chickens a decent quality of
life for however many months or years
they have after being rescued from a
slaughterhouse and before dying of
natural causes on her on her farm and of
course then there's fundraising and
there's dealing with other kind of
volunteers and employees and dealing
with other vegan activist and she is
very much aware that she could be doing
something better with her time and
effort I mean she is really burdened by
the crippling depression
awareness of the futility of this
exercise she knows how many million
chickens are being tortured to death
every day and how many billion are
living in you know factory farm
conditions all around the world the
numbers are absolutely staggering so
what is the meaning of her devoting her
life to helping these few dozen chickens
I don't know if she has a few hundred
now I don't know the numbers sorry but
you know but it consumes her life
entirely it snuffs out her potential to
make a pause the difference in the world
in any other way I think also it's you
know eliminated her ability to have any
hobbies or friends I mean just the
location of being out in a remote place
on this farm but it's obviously
eliminated her ability even to struggle
for a better future for the vegan
movement through other methods like PCRM
PCRM Physicians Committee for
Responsible medicine so again you know
this thought experiment you can extend
it pretty easily
is it futile for her to spend all her
time caring for these chickens what if
the doctors and scientists at PCRM told
you that they were just going to give up
all of their current activities lobbying
government challenging corporations
challenging false advertising advancing
medical science
you know promulgating these new studies
on the health effects all the things
they do to advance veganism if PCRM said
you know what we're gonna cancel all
that we're gonna take our time and money
and we're gonna spend it sitting on a
farm taking care of a few dozen chickens
we're gonna spend all our time caring
for trying to give a decent quality of
life to these chickens that have been
rescued from a factory farm while
millions of others died in the factory
from within one human lifetime within
the scope of a few years futility is
real appeals to futility matter people
have to reflect on what they're doing
with their own lives their sacrifices
and ask is this meaningful and sure in
terms of virtue ethics what kind of
person do I want to be Who am I going to
become if I devote all my time and
energy to take care of these chickens
Who am I going to be after five years
and you know obviously in my own life
I've loved that okay I went to Cambodia
seeking a combination of humanitarian
work and you know
volunteerism and research and
scholarship and learning languages and
studying the politics in history okay I
went to Cambodia with the well after a
couple years in Cambodia you know what
kind of person you're gonna be where is
this leading you so very hard questions
tag by the way I completely regret going
to Cambodia Laos I have more mixed
feelings about but Cambodia yeah
Cambodia was the wrong was the wrong
move anyway humanitarian work can be
enriching it can be educational for you
it can leave you a better person than
you were before you engage in that work
and it can leave you an embittered ruin
shell with a man okay all right so look
appeal the futility is real but it's
something we have to deal with sincerely
and earnestly with people on a
one-to-one basis you can't just dismiss
it as a logical fallacy however in this
case what vouch is doing is presenting
you with the argument that out of his
crypto communist background he presumes
all all factory labor all production of
any product slavery or non slavery
although this in a separate video
whether its wage labor or actually
compulsory labor like like prison labor
whether it's in China or in the United
States of America he regards all of it
as evil and as evil to such an extent
that he doesn't see there he doesn't see
any point whatsoever in the individual
distinguishing even between we have this
absurd example even between the
difference being a computer and buying
child pornography he doesn't see any
moral difference in these things he
doesn't see any difference between
buying soybeans and buying the flesh of
a dead cow that was fed soybeans all its
life to produce that flesh he's not
willing to concede an ethical difference
because he sees any choice to consume
anything as evil that is a classical
classical appeal to futility fallacy if
you drive a car you must kill some
insects you prop let's say
hypothetically you must kill some birds
eventually you're going to hit a blue
jay
or something drive your car down the
highway does that mean you shouldn't
care in the least whether or not you hit
a human being whether you hit an elk
whether or not you hit a deer whether
don't you hit a rabbit does it mean you
shouldn't even bother to make an effort
to avoid hitting a rabbit if a rabbit is
going across the road when you're
driving a car does it mean there are no
measurable consequences that there's no
even measurable difference between
hitting a human being and hitting an
insect or hitting a rabbit the fact that
there's some evil that there's some harm
involved in driving a car no matter what
does not make the other choices
meaningless it doesn't make them
meaningless in terms of virtue ethics
there was the type of person I want to
be like hey I want to be the kind of
person who takes responsibility and
drives in a responsible way and avoids
hitting that old woman and avoids
hitting the elk and avoids hitting the
rabbit even though I know there may be
tiny creatures I'm killing I may be
driving over snails without even
realizing it without perceiving them
nevertheless I want to take
responsibility I want to make the
meaningful choices I can make in a
meaningful way while being cognizant of
the choices I can't make the things I
can't control the things that are beyond
my control it's an absolutely classic
appeal the futility fallacy he's
engaging in here and if he's serious
about virtue ethics then all that this
leads him to do is reflect on the fact
that he is morally a bad person because
he's already conceded the point he's
already recognized a morally better
person would make that choice would make
that commitment
he just conceived the fact that he's not
the person who's couldn't do that all
right this not really a lot left there
to refute or debate so as I say I can
only call this a clarification of his
argument I mean really people like to
disrespect my truth but the fact is that
my name is I don't know you